# Remote-Sensing-of-Residual-Dry-Matter
Script used for my MS Thesis and this manuscript: https://www.mdpi.com/2072-4292/17/14/2352

Residual dry matter (RDM) is a term used in rangeland management to describe the non-photosynthetic plant material left on the soil surface at the end of the growing season. RDM measurements are used by agencies and conservation entities for managing grazing and fire fuels. Measuring the RDM using traditional methods is labor-intensive, costly, and subjective, making consistent sampling challenging. Previous studies have assessed the use of multispectral remote sensing to estimate the RDM, but with limited success across space and time. The existing approaches may be improved through the use of spectroscopic (hyperspectral) sensors, capable of capturing the cellulose and lignin present in dry grass, as well as Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV)-mounted Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) sensors, capable of capturing centimeter-scale 3D vegetation structures. Here, we evaluate the relationships between the RDM and spectral and LiDAR data across the Jack and Laura Dangermond Preserve (Santa Barbara County, CA, USA), which uses grazing and prescribed fire for rangeland management. The spectral indices did not correlate with the RDM (R2 < 0.1), likely due to complete areal coverage with dense grass. The LiDAR canopy height models performed better for all the samples (R2 = 0.37), with much stronger performance (R2 = 0.81) when using a stratified model to predict the RDM in plots with predominantly standing (as opposed to laying) vegetation. This study demonstrates the potential of UAV LiDAR for direct RDM quantification where vegetation is standing upright, which could help improve RDM mapping and management for rangelands in California and beyond.
